.TH xrdcp 1 "31 March 2012"
.SH NAME
xrdcp - copy files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf

\fBxrdcp\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsource\fR \fIdestination\fR

\fIoptions\fR: [\fB--cksum\fR \fIargs\fR] [\fB--debug\fR \fIlvl\fR] [\fB--coerce\fR] [\fB--force\fR]
[\fB--help\fR] [\fB--license\fR] [\fB--nopbar\fR] [\fB--posc\fR] [\fB--proxy \fIipaddr\fB:\fIport\fR]
[\fB--recursive\fR] [\fB--retry\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB--server\fR] [\fB--silent\fR]
[\fB--sources\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB--streams\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB--tpc\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
[\fB--version\fR] [\fB--xrate\fR \fIrate\fR]

\fIlegacy options\fR: [\fB-adler\fR] [\fB-DS\fR\fIparm string\fR] [\fB-DI\fR\fIparm number\fR]
[\fB-md5\fR] [\fB-np\fR] [\fB-OD\fR\fIcgi\fR] [\fB-OS\fR\fIcgi\fR] [\fB-x\fR]

.fi
.br
.ad l
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxrdcp\fR utility copies one or more files from one location to
another. The data source and destination may be a local
or remote file or directory.  Additionally, the data source may also reside
on multiple servers.
.SH OPTIONS
{\fB-C | --cksum\fR} \fItype\fR[\fB:\fR{\fIvalue\fR|\fBprint\fR}]
.RS 5
obtains the checksum of \fItype\fR (i.e. adler32, crc32, or md5) from the source,
computes the checksum at the destination, and verifies that they are the same. If a \fIvalue\fR
is specified, it is used as the source checksum. When \fBprint\fR
is specified, the checksum at the destination is printed but is \fInot\fR verified.

.RE
{\fB-d\fR | \fB--debug\fR} \fIlvl\fR
.RS 5
debug level: 1 (low), 2 (medium), 3 (high)

.RE
{\fB-F\fR | --coerce}
.RS 5
ignores locking semantics on the destination file. This option may lead to
file corruption if not properly used.

.RE
{\fB-f\fR | \fB--force\fR}
.RS 5
re-creates a file if it is already present.

.RE
{\fB-h\fR | --help}
.RS 5
displays usage information.

.RE
{\fB-H\fR | --license}
.RS 5
displays license terms and conditions.

.RE
{\fB-N\fR | \fB--nopbar\fR}
.RS5
does not display the progress bar.

.RE
{\fB-P\fR | \fB--posc\fR}
.RS 5
requests POSC (persist-on-successful-close) processing
to create a new file. Files are automatically deleted should they not be
successfully closed.

.RE
{\fB-D\fR | \fB--proxy\fR} \fIproxyaddr\fB:\fIproxyport\fR
.RS 5
use \fIproxyaddr\fB:\fIproxyport\fR as a SOCKS4 proxy. Only numerical addresses are supported.

.RE
{\fB-r\fR | \fB--recursive\fR}
.RS 5
recursively copy all files starting at the given source directory. This option is
\fIonly\fR supported for local files.

.RE
\fB--server\fR
.RS5
runs as if in a server environment. Used only for server-side
third party copy support.

.RE
{\fB-s\fR | \fB--silent\fR}
.RS 5
neither produces summary information nor displays the progress bar.

.RE
{\fB-y\fR | \fB--sources\fR} \fInum\fR
.RS 5
uses up to \fInum\fR sources to copy the file.

.RE
{\fB-S\fR | \fB--streams\fR} \fInum\fR
.RS 5
uses \fInum\fR additional parallel streams to do the transfer.
The maximum value is 15. The default is 0 (i.e., use only the main stream).

.RE
\fB--tpc\fR
.RS 5
copies the file from remote server to remote server using third-party-copy
protocol (i.e., data flows from server to server). The source and destination
servers must support third party copies. Additional security restrictions
may apply and may cause the copy to fail if they cannot be satisfied.

.RE
{\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR}
.RS 5
displays summary output.

.RE
{\fB-V\fR | \fB-version\fR}
.RS 5
displays version information and immediately exits.

.RE
{\fB-X\fR | \fB--xrate\fR} \fIrate\fR
.RS 5
limits the copy speed to the specified \fIrate\fB. The rate may be qualified
with the letter \fBk\fR, \fBm\fR, or \fBg\fR to indicate kilo, mega, or giga
bytes, respectively. The option only applies when the source or destination is
local.

.SH LEGACY OPTIONS
Legacy options are provided for backward compatability. These are now
deprecated and should be avoided.
.RE
\fB--adler\fR
.RS 5
equivalent to "\fB--cksum adler32:print\fR".

.RE
\fB-DI\fR\fIpname numberval\fR
.RS 5
set the internal parameter \fIpname\fR with the numeric value \fInumberval\fR.

.RE
\fB-DS\fR\fIpname stringval\fR
.RS 5
set the internal parameter \fIpname\fR with the string value \fIstringval\fR.

.RE
\fB-md5\fR
.RS 5
equivalent to "\fB--cksum md5:print\fR".

.RE
\fB-np\fR
.RS 5
equivalent to "\fB--nopbar\fR".

.RE
\fB-OD\fR\fIcgi\fR
.RS 5
add cgi information \fIcgi\fR to any destination xrootd URL.
You should specify the opaque information directly on the destination URL.

.RE
\fB-OS\fR\fIcgi\fR
.RS 5
add cgi information \fIcgi\fR to any source xrootd URL.

.RE
\fB-x\fR
.RS 5
equivalent to "\fB--sources 12\fR".

.RE
.SH OPERANDS
\fIsource\fR
.RS 5
a local file, a local directory name suffixed by /, or
an xrootd URL in the form of
.ce 1
\fBxroot://[\fIuser\fB@\fR]\fIhost[\fB:\fIport\fR]\fB/\fIabsolutepath\fR
The \fIabsolutepath\fR can be a directory.

.RE
\fIdestination\fR
.RS 5
a dash (i.e. \fB-\fR) indicating stanard out, a local file, a local directory
name suffixed by /, or an xrootd URL in the form
.ce 1
\fBxroot://[\fIuser\fB@\fR]\fIhost[\fB:\fIport\fR]\fB/\fIabsolutepath\fR
The \fIabsolutepath\fR can be a directory.

.RE
.SH EXAMPLES (GENERIC)
.TP
local file upload:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile xroot://foo.bar.com//data/myfile
.br
.TP
remote file download:
.br
.B $ xrdcp xroot://foo.bar.com//data/myfile /tmp/myfile
.br
.TP
remote-remote copy:
.br
.B $ xrdcp xroot://foo.bar.com//data/myfile1 xroot://foo.bar.com//data/myfile2
.br
.fi
.br
.ad l
.SH EXAMPLES (CASTOR)
.TP
local file upload to a Castor instance using a specific service class and stager:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile root://<stagerhost>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/myfile -ODstagerHost=$STAGE_HOST&svcClass=$STAGE_SVCCLASS
.br
[ you need to escape the '&' in the shell ]
.TP
remote file download from a Castor instance using a specific stager:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile root://<stagerhost>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/myfile -OSstagerHost=$STAGE_HOST
.TP
client-proxy copy to-/from- a Castor instance:
.br
.B $ xrdcp
.br
.B root://<stagerA>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/stagerA/myfile -OSstagerHost=<stagerA>
.br
.B root://<stagerB>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/stagerB/myfile -ODstagerHost=<stagerA>
.br
.br
[ you cannot copy between stagers using the same logical filename in the castor namespace! ]
.SH NOTES
Documentation for all components associated with \fBxrdcp\fR can be found at
http://xrootd.org/docs.html
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors yield an error message and a non-zero exit status.
.SH LICENSE
License terms can be displayed by typing "\fBxrootd -H\fR".
.SH SUPPORT LEVEL
The \fBxrdcp\fR command is supported by the xrootd collaboration.
Contact information can be found at
.ce
http://xrootd.org/contact.html
