.TH xrdpfc_print 8 "@XRootD_VERSION_STRING@"
.SH NAME
xrdpfc_print - print content of XRootd ProxyFileCache meta data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf

\fBxrdpfc_print\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fRpath ...\fR

\fIoptions\fR: [\fB-config\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-unit\fR \fIB|kB|MB\fR] [\fB-json\fR] [\fB-indent\fR \fIchars\fR] [\fB-verbose\fR] [\fB-help\fR]

.fi
.br
.ad l
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxrdpfc_print\fR prints status of downloaded file blocks and access statistics of cached files.
.SH OPTIONS

\fB-c\fR | \fB-config <file-name>\fR
.RS 5
Xrootd configuration file. Used to load non-default file system (directive
ofs.osslib) and prefix for the location of cached files (directive
oss.localroot).

.RE
\fB-v\fR | \fB-verbose\fR
.RS 5
Prints state bit for each file block.

.RE
\fB-u\fR | \fB-unit <B|kB|MB>\fR
.RS 5
Specify unit for file-size and access byte-counts; buffer/block size is
printed at most as kB. Downward rounding occurs for kB and MB. kB is the
default.
.br
This option does NOT apply to JSON output format, there the unit is always B.

.RE
\fB-j\fR | \fB-json\fR
.RS 5
Prints output in JSON format.

.RE
\fB-i\fR | \fB-indent <int>\fR
.RS 5
Specify alignment for JSON format. Default is -1: single line without any white-space.

.RE
\fB-h\fR | \fB-help\fR
.RS 5
Displays usage information.

.RE


.RE
.SH OPERANDS
\fRpath\fR
.RS 5
Path to a cinfo file or directory for which the information is to be
printed. Path can be relative or absolute. If the path begins with root:/ the
path is assumed to be a LFN and gets translated via the standard OSS rules (in
the least, it gets prefixed by the oss.localroot). In this case -config option
is mandatory.

.RE

.SH NOTES
Documentation for all components associated with \fBxrdpfc_print\fR can be found at
http://xrootd.org/docs.html
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors yield an error message and a non-zero exit status.
.SH LICENSE
License terms can be displayed by typing "\fBxrootd -H\fR".
.SH SUPPORT LEVEL
The \fBxrdpfc_print\fR command is supported by the xrootd collaboration.
Contact information can be found at
.ce
http://xrootd.org/contact.html
